All right.
So let's go into a quick summary of our favorite new rule the chain rule.
So a composition of functions is one function plugged into another.
We did a couple of examples of this at the beginning of the session.
Then we have the chain rule is used to find the derivative of a composition of functions.
So whenever you have one function inside of another and you want to find the derivative of that composition
that's when you use the chain rule and remember the name kind of says it.
A chain has pieces of metal linked to one another in the same way.
When you have a composition of functions you have one function linked to another right.
Next we have that you need to use the chain rule when you have a function wrapped inside another function
which is another way of saying when you have a composition of functions and here I say except for x
by itself.
And again we show it a couple of different examples of when you do not need to use the chain rule.
So for example if I tell you find the derivative of x to the tenth do you need the chain rule.
Obviously you don't because the inner function in this case is just x.
So here we can apply the typical power rule.
You know we bring our dictator down and we substitute a less powerful leader.
All right so this one takes no Chandru.
But what if I told you I mean the derivative of x to the third minus 5 x squared
plus 33 all of this to the tenth power.
Well here the game changes because now you have this function right.
This long function that's not x by itself but execute minus 5 x squared plus 33 and you're taking that
to the tenth power.
So here you have your inner function and then the outer function tells you get the inner function and
take it to the tenth power.
Right.
So for this one we would need to use the chain rule and in general if you do not know if you need to
use the chain rule.
Well ask yourself Is there an inner function.
So in the first example we just did here X to the tenth the inner function quote unquote is just x.
But remember we have x by itself.
That's not fun that's just standard right.
However in this one is there an inner function.
You bet.
Here it is.
It's this thing inside and it's being wrapped around by this other function which takes it to the tenth
power.
All right.
And we have our crazy mnemonic for this UTX ugly daily X-Box.
I totally know you're enjoying this mnemonic.
Come on I know you like it.
And again the idea is you do X which gives you the three steps to solve a chain rule problem.
And again just by looking at this you dx that should tell you right there that you need to find you.
You'll find the derivatives and then you put in terms of X..
So first step 1 we said you equal to the inner function.
And in this case for example x cubed minus 5 x squared plus 33.
That's it.
This is the inner function first step to which again is the most tricky of this chain rule.
Remember that we have to do
DUI cross DX right.
And then we just put you down here and do you over here.
All right.
So do you id x cross each other and do you.
And do you cross each other as well.
All right.
And to hear it remember that we're multiplying two derivatives a derivative of y in terms of you times
the derivative of you in terms of x.
So you get Y which is the original function and you put it in terms of view.
You basically transform it using what you did in step 1.
So for example in this case you would be the enter function right.
This is the inner
and this would become you to the tenth power.
All right.
This is this in terms of you know axes anymore just you the tenth.
That's what we do here.
And of course not only do we need to put y in terms of you we need to find the derivative of that y
in terms of view and then we multiply this by you in terms of x.
Again us just the inner function.
So it's already going to be in terms of x.
So first derivative times this other derivative.
And finally for the last step this X over here is to put it back in terms of x.
So are you going to get an answer that's a mix of both x and you.
Well you need to do is take the use and substitute them back.
So if you're equals x squared minus 5 x squared plus 33 where ever you see and you know the answer you're
going to put x squared minus 5 x squared plus 33.
You're just putting it back in terms of x because we have no use for an answer that has a new.
Everything has to be X right.
And finally I wanted to say that very important in practice this rule a lot.
All right.
I'm not going to lie.
The chain rule can be tricky especially when you have tricky derivatives that you need to apply the
chain rule for.
Not only that you have this mnemonic which you need to make sure that you remember this part specifically
D-y over you times do you over dx and what it means and how to do it.
All right so I want you to practice this rule a lot.
We'll go through a couple of problems like I said.
So there you get some practice with this rule.
But don't think that you're going to do three problems with the chain rule and then you'll be ready
for the test.
It doesn't work like that specially for the chain rule.
So do the problems that I will present to you next.
But also remember to always practice and that's it.
I'll see you in the next tutorial.